chore(KFLUXVNGD-347): Document the process of onboarding tasks (#386)
konflux-ci/docs: modules/end-to-end/pages/building-tekton-tasks.adoc

[NOTE] 
====
* Each task and task version in the application should be represented by a component, each component should contain the pipeline in use (*tekton-bundle-builder-oci-ta*) and the context to the task within the GH repository (*tasks/echo/0.1* for example).
* The Component's naming convention is <task_name>-v<task_version> (echo-v01)
====

Once these resources are added, a PR with *on-pr* and *push* pipelineruns will be sent to your repository.

[NOTE] 
====
* The *on-pr* pipelinerun will be created with the context we have defined for the component and with *on-cel-expression* to run the pipelinerun only in case a change was detected in the component, for example:

[source,yaml]
----
pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "pull_request"
    && target_branch == "main"
    && (
    "tasks/echo/0.1/***".pathChanged() || ".tekton/echo-v01-pull-request.yaml".pathChanged()
    )
----

> However, when *branch protection* is enabled in your GH repository it might prevent the pipelinerun to run when needed for the branch protection, in this case updating the *on-cel-expression* in the on-pr pipelinerun will solve the issue.

Reviewer: Could you make it a bit more clear?

[source,yaml]
----

> pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: event == "pull_request" && target_branch

Reviewer: `&& target_branch` is it a valid expression?

----
oras pull quay.io/konflux-ci/my-team-tasks/data-acceptable-bundles:latest
----
The command will extract the list of trusted tasks to data/data/trusted_tekton_tasks.yml in your working directory

=== Use onboarded tasks as trusted tasks

To be able to use the onboarded tasks and let Conforma identify these tasks as trusted tasks we have to update the policies we are using and add the new trusted data sources.
For this purpose, we will use the data-acceptable-bundles OCI artifact that was created/updated during the release process.
Example of a policy that adds *quay.io/konflux-ci/my-team-tasks/data-acceptable-bundles:latest* as a trusted source:

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: appstudio.redhat.com/v1alpha1
kind: EnterpriseContractPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: enterprise-contract-service
spec:
  description: Conforma policy with the addition of 
  oci::quay.io/konflux-ci/my-team-tasks/data-acceptable-bundles:latest as another data source
  name: Default
  publicKey: k8s://openshift-pipelines/public-key
  sources:
  - config:
      exclude: []
      include:
      - '@slsa3'
    data:
    - oci::quay.io/konflux-ci/tekton-catalog/data-acceptable-bundles:latest

>     - github.com/release-engineering/rhtap-ec-policy//data

Reviewer: is double slash intentional?

Author: Yes it is, that's the syntax

= Building Tekton tasks as bundles in {ProductName}

This document provides a step-by-step guide on how to onboard your Tekton tasks to {ProductName}, enabling their integration into your build pipelines.

== Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following:

* A Github repository containing your Tekton tasks with a catalog structure, containing all the additional files (README, TROUBLESHOOTING, etc…)

----
tasks/
└── echo/
    ├── 0.1/
    │   ├── echo.yaml
    │   ├── README.md
    │   ├── USAGE.MD
    │   └── TROUBLESHOOT.md
    └── 0.2/
        ├── echo.yaml
        └── README.md
----

> * {ProductName} Github application installed in the repository xref:installing:github-app.adoc[GitHub App]

Reviewer 2: The installing page is for platform engineers but this page is for users. We might not have a good link for this.

Author: Looking at the links, they seem to work fine and the link takes us to the correct location:
https://konflux-ci.dev/docs/installing/github-app/

Reviewer 2: Right, the link is a valid link, I just wasn't sure if it was an appropriate link. :)

* A quay organization to be used with on-pr and push pipelines.

> * Public repositories within the quay organization to push the bundles to when using the on-pr and push pipelines.

Reviewer 2: Is this different from onboarding components normally?

Author: No, its the same

* A quay organization for the released bundles.

> * A public repository within the release organization for the trusted tasks list.

Reviewer 2: Is this something that users would need to configure or is it just a property of the release pipelines? i.e. any SRE, etc. would have to provide this ability for you to release to?

Author: Users will need to configure it.
The release process will release the bundle to a repository but it will also update the trusted tasks list and a repository for the trusted tasks list should be created before.

* Access to the {ProductName} environment.

* Necessary permissions to create and manage components in {ProductName}.

== Onboarding Steps

> The onboarding of tasks to {ProductName} is similar to onboarding other applications/components to {ProductName}, with the exception of not having a Dockerfile (we are not building images).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The onboarding of tasks to {ProductName} is similar to onboarding other applications/components to {ProductName}, with the exception of not having a Containerfile as we are not building container images.
```

Author: Done

=== Application, Components and ImageRepository

Tekton tasks are built as standard OCI artifacts in {ProductName}.

The xref:building:/creating.adoc[Creating applications and components] page can be referenced for more information on how to create an Application for all tasks and a Component for each task within this Application, as well as an ImageRepository resource to be used within the quay organization.

[NOTE] 
====

> * Each task and task version in the application should be represented by a component, each component should contain the pipeline in use (*tekton-bundle-builder-oci-ta*) and the context to the task within the GH repository (*tasks/echo/0.1* for example).

Reviewer 2: Do you mean each task and version of the task should be represented as a component? Is it a requirement that these are all in the same Application?

Author: Yes, I mean that each task and version of a task should be represented as a component.
It is not required that all of them will be in the same application, we can have different applications for different sets of tasks

Reviewer 2: I think we can improve the clarity here. I don't think that we need to introduce the word "application" here. Maybe that is most of the confusion?

Author: I removed the application mentioning

> * The Component's naming convention is <task_name>-v<task_version> (echo-v01)

Reviewer 2: Where is this convention? Is it in the naming of the component? The naming of the task? The location where images are pushed?

Author: I refer to the component's naming convention:
<task_name>-v<task_version> i.e. `echo-v01`

====

Once these resources are added, a PR with *on-pr* and *push* pipelineruns will be sent to your repository.

[NOTE] 
====

> * The *on-pr* pipelinerun will be created with the context we  have defined for the component and with *on-cel-expression* to run the pipelinerun only in case a change was detected in the component, for example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The *on-pr* pipelinerun will be created with the context we have defined for the component and with *on-cel-expression* to run the pipelinerun only in case a change was detected in the component, for example:
```

Author: Done

[source, yaml]
----
pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "pull_request"
    && target_branch == "main"
    && (
    "tasks/echo/0.1/***".pathChanged() || ".tekton/echo-v01-pull-request.yaml".pathChanged()
    )
----

> However, when *branch protection* is enabled in your GH repository it might prevent the pipelinerun to run when needed for the branch protection, in this case updating the *on-cel-expression* in the on-pr pipelinerun will solve the issue.

Reviewer 2: > your GH repository it might prevent the pipelinerun to run when needed for the branch protection

I don't think I understand what you are saying here.

Author: I am referring to a case where we have a branch protection rule to run specific tests/pipelines.
There might be cases where the rule requires a specific pipeline to run but because of the cel expression it will not be triggered.
In this case the specific pipeline will be pending and will not run.

Author: Yes, I will add an example

[source, yaml]
----
pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: event == "pull_request" && target_branch
----

* The *Push* pipelinerun is created with a default on-cel-expression.
For now we need to manually update it to run only if changes were made in the context, example:

[source, yaml]
----
pipelinesascode.tekton.dev/on-cel-expression: |
    event == "push"
    && target_branch == "main"
    && (
    "tasks/echo/0.1/***".pathChanged() || ".tekton/echo-v01-push.yaml".pathChanged()
      )

> ----

Reviewer 2: Is this content best suited for this e2e guide or should we move it to an onboarding section?

Author: I am not sure, I think it can stay here.
Do you think we should move it?

====

=== Integration tests

> Follow xref:testing:integration/index.adoc[Integration tests] to add integration tests to the application and components.

Reviewer 2: Is the Conforma integration test added by default? Are there any other recommendations for having an integration test?

If we are only going to mention the Conforma test, I feel like we can just make a page/section about that in the testing module and then xref from here. These are generally beneficial to have to enable policy-driven-development.

Author: In Konflux CI it is added by default and pass, I encountered some issues when it ran on downstream Konflux for the whole application.
Adding contexts and integration test per component solved it.
So I guess we can remove this section for upstream, but mentioned it for downstream, does it make sense?

Reviewer 2: Sure. If we had a section on gitops for configuring (i.e. a pattern), then we could add it there... and then we could further augment that for downstream usage, potentially.

Example of an *IntegrationTestScenario*:
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: appstudio.redhat.com/v1beta2
kind: IntegrationTestScenario
metadata:
  name: my-tasks-enterprise-contract
  namespace: my-team-tenant
spec:
  application: my-tasks
  contexts:
    - description: Component testing for echo task version 0.1
      name: component_echo-v01
  params:
    - name: POLICY_CONFIGURATION
      value: rhtap-releng-tenant/tekton-bundle-standard
  resolverRef:
    params:
      - name: url
        value: https://github.com/konflux-ci/build-definitions
      - name: revision
        value: main
      - name: pathInRepo
        value: pipelines/enterprise-contract.yaml
    resolver: git
----

[NOTE]
====

> * Defining *component_<component_name>* will ensure the integration test runs only for this component

Reviewer 2: Are you recommending this context? Why should users choose it?

Author: See comment above

> * The *rhtap-releng-tenant/tekton-bundle-standard* policy should be used with Tekton tasks.

Reviewer 2: This specific policy is not available generally. It is a policy that we put on clusters. This might be a good use of a partial if you want to call it out.

====

=== Release

The release process for bundles includes both the release of Tekton tasks as bundles and updating the list of trusted-tasks OCI artifacts.

This list will be used to notify the Conforma policies of our trusted tasks.

> As a preparation for the release, we need to first create a public Quay repository in our release Quay organization to hold this artifact.

Reviewer 2: "our public quay organization" isn't necessarily true for konflux-ci documentation. That is more of an internal implementation detail?

The same holds for some of the later content. If we want to be this specific, then we should have a partial upstream with more generic information and then more specifics in our internal doc.

> As a preparation for the release, we need to first create a public Quay repository in our release Quay organization to hold this artifact.

Author: I removed quay from upstream documentation

        └── data-acceptable-bundles
----

To release Tekton tasks as bundles, you will need to create the following resources in your tenant:

* xref:releasing:create-release-plan.adoc[ReleasePlan]

Example: 
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: appstudio.redhat.com/v1alpha1
kind: ReleasePlan
metadata:
  labels:
    release.appstudio.openshift.io/auto-release: "true"
    release.appstudio.openshift.io/releasePlanAdmission: my-tasks
    release.appstudio.openshift.io/standing-attribution: "true"
  name: my-tasks-release-to-quay-konflux-ser
  namespace: my-tasks-tenant
spec:
  application: my-tasks
  target: rhtap-releng-tenant  

----

* xref:releasing:create-release-plan-admission.adoc[ReleasePlanAdmission]

Example:
[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: appstudio.redhat.com/v1alpha1
kind: ReleasePlanAdmission
metadata:
  name: my-tasks
  namespace: rhtap-releng-tenant
  labels:
    release.appstudio.openshift.io/auto-release: 'true'
    pp.engineering.redhat.com/business-unit: application-developer
spec:
  applications:
    - my-tasks
  policy: tekton-bundle-standard
  origin: my-tasks-tenant
  data:
    releaseNotes:
      product_name: My Tasks
      product_version: "0.1"      

>     mapping:

Author: Done

>     mapping:

Author: Done

>     mapping:

Author: @hongweiliu17 
I rephrased it to be `registrySecret: <Secret to your registry>` instead of specifying the secret

      components:
        - name: echo
          repository: "quay.io/konflux-ci/my-team-tasks/task-echo"

>           tags:

Author: Done
